FAQ for alt.games.xpilot release 2.0.0.
Suggestions, improvements and spelling corrections to bert@mc.bio.uva.nl.

Questions:

0) Does this FAQ answer all my questions about XPilot?
1) What is this wonderful game called XPilot everybody is talking about?
2) What is the latest version?
3) Where can I get it as soon as possible?
4) Sound?  Does it really have sound?
5) How can I uncompress the XPilot distribution files?
6) I do not have the patch program on my system, so how can I upgrade?
7) Compilation fails, because the compiler generates lots of error messages?
8) How should I start the game?
9) The xpilots server complains that it is unable to read globe.map?
10) xpilot fails: ioctl SIOCGIFCONF (Operation not supported on socket)?
   or: Couldn't send query packets (Operation not supported on socket)?
   or: Can't make socket non-blocking (Operation not supported on socket)?
11) Why is everything so jerky?  Or why is my client so slow?
12) Where can I get new maps?
13) How can I distribute my own carefully crafted maps?
14) How can I design my own maps easily?
15) I have a problem because this and that is not working.
16) What is the meta server?
17) How should I subscribe/unsubscribe to/from the XPilot mailing list?
18) How can I contribute bugfixes and new features to the game?
19) Is there an archive of alt.games.xpilot and the mailing list?
20) How can I fire nukes?
21) What are the Well Known Problems for the latest version?
22) What if I'm having trouble installing XPilot on Platform XYZ?

Answers:

0) Does this FAQ answer all my questions about XPilot?

No.  This FAQ is only meant to get you up and running and covers some
issues not found elsewhere.  In the XPilot distribution there is
authoritative documentation any wanna-be XPiloter should read.
Pay special attention to the two manual pages in the man6 directory
and to the three README files.  The README files are README, README.MAPS
and README.MAPS2.  Reading these files carefully will prevent a lot of
unnecessary beginner questions and will make you a better player.

1) What is this wonderful game called XPilot everybody is talking about?

XPilot is a multi-player tactical manouvring game for X and Unix workstations.
Players have a fighter which they move along in an artificial world
and shoot each other using various kinds of weapons like bullets, mines,
smart missiles, heat seekers and so on.  It is a fast paced game with
a lot of tactics.  There are also robots flying around shooting players
and other robots.  Players can pickup special bonuses to improve the
possibilities of their ship like more engine power or special weapons.
The aim of the game is to score points and to have a lot of fun.
People can create their own maps using a standard editor or modify
other peoples maps.  Nice maps are a popular item to share with others.
The game is very configurable in that you can specify many parameters
in a defaults file, in the map file or on the command line.  Configurable
options include the speed of shots, the lifetime of shots, the force and
direction of the gravity, whether players can use shields or not, the chance
that some kind of special bonus appears in the world, the number of screen
updates per second and so on.

Since release 3.0 it is possible to play games across the Internet if
the roundtrip times are below 150 milliseconds or so, depending on the
frame rate of the XPilot server.  Use the ping command to examine the
quality of your connection.

XPilot is written by Bjoern Stabell, Ken Ronny Schouten and Bert Gijsbers.
Many people around the world have contributed code or helped in other ways
to have XPilot run on a diverse set of Unix computer and VMS.

New features are added every week.

2) What is the latest version?

3.0.6.  Which is XPilot release 3.0, patchlevel 6.

3) Where can I get it as soon as possible?

Anonymous ftp to ftp.cs.uit.no (129.242.16.93) in /pub/games/xpilot.
Use as login name anonymous or ftp and use as password your email address.
Look for the file named xpilot-3.0.6.tar.gz, which is the already fully
patched up version.  Some patches for older versions are also available.
Other anonymous ftp sites may have it as well, for example:
ftp.x.org (198.112.44.100) in /contrib
src.doc.ic.ac.uk (146.169.2.1) in /computing/graphics/systems/X11/contrib
pdq.coe.montana.edu (192.31.215.240) in /pub/mirrors/X11-contrib
ftp.csc.liv.ac.uk (138.253.42.172) in /hpux9/Games
ftp.uu.net (192.48.96.9) in /pub/window-sys/X/contrib
wuarchive.wustl.edu (128.252.135.4) in /packages/X11R5/contrib-pub
But some of them do not have the latest patch level.

If you have absolutely no FTP access then you can get it send by email.
Mail to bert@mc.bio.uva.nl with a Subject line of `mail xpilot'.
Please be careful requesting it this way because if this service is
taking too much time it will be stopped.  FTPing it yourself is
much faster anyway.
You will get a dozen mails with XPilot in gzipped uuencoded format.
Strip the mail headers and concatenate these files in the right order
into one big file.  The last line of this file should read: "end".
Then uudecode this file to get xpilot-3.0.6.tar.gz.
This is the XPilot distribution file as found on ftp.cs.uit.no.

4) Sound?  Does it really have sound?

There is optional sound support for machines running the rplay package.
When you have compiled and installed XPilot with sound support configured
then run rplayd on the machine which is running your XPilot client.
You will probably need "rplayd -n -t 0" so that it takes input from the
network port and doesn't time out and die.  If that is running on the
client machine, XPilot should automatically figure it out and start
playing the appropriate sounds for you.

Rplay version 3.1 is not just for Suns any more.  So far there is support
for SunOS 4.1.x, Solaris 2.x, Linux, 386bsd, BSDI/386, HP-UX, and
SGI Indigo is almost done.

There is also separate and different sound support for NCD MCX X terminals.
These X terminals must be running release 3.1 or later of the NCD software.
Greg Renda can provide you with more details at greg@ncd.com.

5) How can I uncompress the XPilot distribution files?

The files are in GNU zip format.  Older versions of GNU zip use
the .z extension, newer versions of GNU zip use the .gz extension.
GNU zip is available from your favorite local ftp site.  Look for gzip.
Two of the many ftp sites having gzip are ftp.uu.net (192.48.96.9) and
prep.ai.mit.edu (18.71.0.38).  The last one in the pub/gnu directory.

Alternatively, if you have an older version of GNU zip and do not wish to
upgrade, you can use something like :

    gzip -d < xpilot-3.0.0.tar.gz > xpilot-3.0.0.tar

or even better :

    gzip -d < xpilot-3.0.0.tar.gz | tar xvf -

6) I do not have the patch program on my system, so how can I upgrade?

Get patch from one of the major ftp sites mentioned above.
Or from prep.ai.mit.edu in the pub/gnu directory.

7) Compilation fails, because the compiler generates lots of error messages?

This is probably due to not using an ANSI compiler.  Consider using GCC.
Also, do not use the -ansi option together with GCC, because some system
include files are not fully ANSI compatible.

8) How should I start the game?

When you have managed to compile XPilot successfully you will have
two new executables.  One program is named 'xpilots', which is the
server program.  If you do: `xpilots -help' then you will see some
configuration options.  Start this program in one window
simply by typing: xpilots or ./xpilots.  Nothing much will happen yet.
The other program is named 'xpilot', which is the client program.
Startup this program in a second window.  If you start this program
without arguments it tries to find an XPilot server on your local network.
Otherwise give it the name of the host where the XPilot server is
running as its last command line argument.
The xpilot client program should now print a message like:

*** Server on darkstar.frop.org. Enter command>

Now type a question mark '?' to see some possible options.
Or simply type a return to enter the game.

9) The xpilots server complains that it is unable to read globe.map?

First read the READMEs more carefully.  They tell you that you
need to adapt the Imakefile or Makefile and possibly the config.h
file to your XPilot installation configuration.
Specifically modify LIBDIR to the directory where you have your XPilot
lib directory and MAPDIR in case you have changed your map directory.
There are also two manual pages included which may offer you more help.

10) xpilot fails: ioctl SIOCGIFCONF (Operation not supported on socket)?
   or: Couldn't send query packets (Operation not supported on socket)?
   or: Can't make socket non-blocking (Operation not supported on socket)?

When you try to run the client it fails with the following messages:

    xpilot: ioctl SIOCGIFCONF (Operation not supported on socket)
    xpilot: Couldn't send query packets (Operation not supported on socket)

or if you try to run the server it will fail with the following message:

    xpilots: Can't make socket non-blocking (Operation not supported on socket)

Whomever installed gcc on your system forgot to run fixincludes which
converts the ioctl definitions in the header files so that they will
compile properly.

11) Why is my display so jerky?  Or why is the client so slow?

This is probably due to you not using a standard MIT X server, but
one of those customized servers supplied by your workstation vendor.
Some of these servers, like the Xnews server for OpenWindows from Sun
or an Ultrix server, are known to have serious performace degradation
for X clients that frequently change their colors or colormaps.
Because XPilot changes the set of colors at a rate of approximately 15
times per second this will not work well if your graphics hardware is
not superfast.
Try to use the MIT X server instead.
Or, if you like to experiment a little, compile the src/paint.c file
with the macro ERASE defined as 1 (add -DERASE=1 to DEFS in the Makefile).
This will have the client use a different drawing technique, which is
reported to speedup the client for older/cheaper workstations by
about 50 percent.
The ERASE option was first implemented for release 3.0.6 and needs
more work as it is not perfect yet.

You can also try to play on a server which runs at a lower framerate than
the standard 18 frames per second.  Try 10 or 12.

Setting maxColors to 4 and keeping the window size medium or small helps too.

12) Where can I get new maps?

anonymous ftp:
        sounds.sdsu.edu:/pub/xpilot-maps
gopher:
        Name=xpilot-maps
        Type=1
        Port=71
        Path=1/pub/xpilot-maps
        Host=sounds.sdsu.edu
        (Note that you can only retrieve maps with gopher...)

Questions and comments about this map server should go to Andrew@SDSU.Edu

There is also a world writeable map directorie on ftp.cs.uit.no in
/pub/games/xpilot/maps.

13) How can I distribute my own carefully crafted maps?

See the previous question.  The sites mentioned in the previous question
are eager to add your map to their set of maps, but it is perhaps also
a good idea to post an announcement in alt.games.xpilot or on the mailing
list.  Or even post your map to alt.games.xpilot or xpilot-list@cs.uit.no.

14) How can I design my own maps easily?

Use the XMapEdit program, which was made
by Aaron Averila (averila@oes.orst.edu).
You can get it by ftp from ftp.cs.uit.no in /pub/games/xpilot.
The map format is in ASCII so you can also make or change maps
with your standard text editor (vi, emacs).  And everybody did
it that way before XMapEdit, but that seems hopelessly complex
and tedious now.
Special thanks to Aaron for making XMapEdit.

15) I have a problem because this and that is not working.

Make sure you use the latest `officially released' version.
You will be most cooperative if you try to fix it yourself first.
If you find the cause of the problems mail any solutions/bugfixes
to xpilot@cs.uit.no.
If you tried everything and you still cannot solve it then post
a help request to alt.games.xpilot or mail to xpilot-list@cs.uit.no.

16) What is the meta server?

The meta server is a server program that allows people to find other
XPilot servers running on the Internet.  XPilot servers can report
their existence to the meta server on startup and every three minutes
of active play.  Then other players can query the meta server and
find status information on XPilot games in progress.

You can connect to the meta server with:

  telnet xpilot.cs.uit.no 4400

Help is available online.  Example session:

    % telnet xpilot.cs.uit.no 4400
    Trying...
    Connected to lgserv1.cs.uit.no.
    Escape character is '^]'.

    Welcome to Xpilot Meta server

    This is the available ports on the Meta server:
    4400:   This port. Interactive user port.
    4401:   Program port. Lists out all info in one go and terminates.
    4402:   FAQ port. This will give you the FAQ in one go and terminate.

    Type "help" to list out possible commands.

    E-mail problems to kenrsc@stud.cs.uit.no (Ken Ronny Schouten).

    >help

    Possible commands:
    HELP       LIST      QUIT       SERVER       STATUS     NEWS     FAQ
    Also try "help help".

    You can also contact the Xpilot Meta server through port number 4401.
    It will list out the servers and terminate the connection. This should
    be used by any program you make that uses the Xpilot Meta server. The list
    is in the following format:
    version:hostname:port number:number of users:map name:map size:map author:
    :server status:number of home bases:frames per second:players list
    >list
    3.0.5          :lurch.ccad.uiowa.edu     :15345    :1   :Beneath Planet X...
    3.0.5          :faui05d.informatik.uni-erlangen.de:15345    :2   :The Globe
    3.0.5          :hpws3.physik.uni-jena.de :15345    :1   :The Globe
    3.0.5          :bluegiant.phys.ksu.edu   :15345    :3   :Astra
    3.0.4          :aid.wu-wien.ac.at        :15345    :2   :X periment
    3.0.5          :pine.shu.ac.uk           :15345    :0   :The Black Hole
    3.0.5          :blackie.ono.heaven.peace :15345    :3   :Planet X
    3.0.5          :banjo.imel1.kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp:15345    :5   :The Continent/Race
    >server blackie.ono.heaven.peace
    >status
    SERVER VERSION...: XPilot 3.0.5
    STARTED BY.......: daryl
    STATUS...........: ok
    MAX SPEED........: 18 fps
    WORLD (310x267)..: Planet X
          AUTHOR.....: Børge Berg-Olsen
    PLAYERS ( 3/16)..:

    NO:  TM: NAME:             LIFE:   SC:    PLAYER:
    -------------------------------------------------
     1... P  Zapper             003    -9     bono@218.16.1.11
     2... *  Raider             018   -32     appr@218.16.1.13
     3... P  Spot               028   -62     bela@218.16.1.12

    >quit
    Connection closed by foreign host.

The meta server is developed and maintained by Ken Ronny Schouten.
His email address is kenrsc@stud.cs.uit.no.

Due to some software problems the meta server may not be running
at all times, but it mostly will.

Try port 4401 instead of 4400 to get the server listing in a different format.

Port 4402 will get you the latest version of this FAQ.

17) How should I subscribe/unsubscribe to/from the XPilot mailing list?

Requests for (un)subscription to the XPilot mailing list should
be send to xpilot-request@cs.uit.no.  People really dislike it
to see any (un)subscribe requests in the mailing list itself.
The mailing list itself is xpilot-list@cs.uit.no, which is gateway-ed
to alt.games.xpilot.

18) How can I contribute bugfixes and new features to the game?

Make your contributions as context diffs against the latest version
and mail them to xpilot@cs.uit.no.  You can make context diffs with
the diff command.  Use `diff -c oldfile newfile' or `diff -cr olddir newdir'.
The authors very much appreciate fixes and improvements.  XPilot has a
longstanding tradition of incorporating code from hackers all over the world.
Ideas for new features can of course be discussed in alt.games.xpilot
and the mailing list.  Unfortunately, not all discussions lead to someone
starting coding.

19) Is there an archive of alt.games.xpilot and the mailing list?

David Bianco has set up an archive of alt.games.xpilot which can be
accessed via anonymous FTP to ftp.cs.odu.edu:/pub/news/alt.games.xpilot.
Note that this is also an archive of the mailing list (they are the same).  

There is also an older archive of the XPilot mailing list on ftp.cs.uit.no
in pub/games/xpilot.

20) How can I fire nukes?

First: you must configure the server to permit nukes to be fired.
You can do this with the 'allowNukes' option.  Include a line like:
'allowNukes: true' in the defaults file, in the map file or on the
command line as '-allowNukes true'.
Second: you must have eight or more missiles.
Third: you must have enough fuel to fire a missile (not much).
Fourth: you must have shields down.
Fifth: you must hit the right key, which mostly is 'n'.

As an aside you may be interested to know that the destructive power
of a nuke increases with the number of missiles you have.
If your fighter is light (i.e. little fuel and no tanks) then the
recoil may be so heavy that you will be smashed into the wall backwards.

21) What are the Well Known Problems for the latest version?

The first of these Well Known Problems apply to XPilot 3.0 patchlevel 3,
but may also apply to later patchlevels:

(a) On some systems the client drops frames, which results in a jerky display.
    This is either due to a slow display system which can be solved by reducing
    the number of frames the server is generating with the -FPS option.
    Or this is due to a currently unknown bug in which case it is observed
    that the display will become normal if the player is firing very heavily.
    Or this is due to a bug (some bugs) in Suns OpenWindows X servers in
    which case changing to MIT X Servers will help.
(b) The Imakefile entry for Suns causes some problems on some systems.
    Try the Makefile.std instead and do a make clean first.
(c) On Suns running openwindows there seems to be a problem with the varargs
    mechanism related to gcc using a different set of include files.
    To prevent gcc from using the wrong set of include files make sure that
    the compiler is not having a -I/usr/include argument.
    When using the Imakefile with xmkmf check for the following bad line
    in the generated Makefile:
        TOP_INCLUDES = -I$(INCROOT)
    It should be changed to:
        TOP_INCLUDES =
    Or use the Makefile.std instead which does not have this problem.
(d) It has been reported that after applying patch #3 it was necessary to do
    a make clean first before recompiling.

These apply to patchlevel 4:

e) In Team mode shots sometimes don't kill.  This is due to a bug
   in collision.c line 627, which currently reads as:
	    if (TEAM(obj->id, pl->id)) {
   But which should read as:
	    if (TEAM(GetInd[obj->id], GetInd[pl->id])) {

For patchlevel 5 there have not been reported any problems.

Since 3.0.5 there is a BUGS file in the toplevel directory of the distribution.
This file describes all of the known bugs and the (lack of :) progress being
made on fixing them.

22) What if I'm having trouble installing XPilot on Platform XYZ?

Below is a list of people who are willing to help others install XPilot
on various platforms. Please feel free to mail these people about any
difficulties you are having but keep in mind that they are doing this
voluntarily.  Please specify the operating system and compiler you are
using when describing your difficulties.

Platform                Person              Email
----------------------- ------------------- ---------------------------------
DEC Ultrix 4.2          David Chatterton    davidc@bruce.cs.monash.edu.au

SGI Irix 4.0.5          David Chatterton    davidc@bruce.cs.monash.edu.au

Trusted Solaris CMW     Steve Marsden       stevem@stella.logica.co.uk

VMS                     Curt Hjorring       HJORRING@esv1.aukuni.ac.nz

Linux                   Bert Gijsbers       bert@mc.bio.uva.nl

EOFAQ
