$Id: INSTALL,v 3.1 1995/07/17 10:33:58 bjoerns Exp $

To compile XPilot, you'll need at least

An ANSI C compiler
	gcc with gcc-includes installed should work just fine,
	though many default compilers (like Sun's) are NOT
	ANSI C compliant so check and double check that the
	compiler you plan to use is ANSI C compliant.
	About 95% of all the problems reported is because
	users are not using an ANSI C compliant compiler!)

X11	(only R4 and R5 tested, but R6 has been reported to work too)

Also note that XPilot isn't gentle with the X server, so a fast machine
(with a graphics accelerator that does line drawing in hardware),
in a fast network is the ideal situation.



INSTALLATION

The complete installation just requires three steps -- geez, how easy
can it be? :)

1. Edit configuration files:

   If you don't have Imake, you'll have to manage with the Makefile.std
   in the src directory; just cd to src, copy Makefile.std to Makefile,
   and edit config.h.

   If you have Imake, you must first

	edit Local.config

   to suit your environment.
   Then issue the following command

	xmkmf -a

   or, if that fails,

	xmkmf ; make Makefiles ; make includes ; make depend


2. Compile:

   Just run

	make

   If you get lots of errors, verify that you're using an ANSI C compiler.

   If you're compiling with gcc and get conflicting types for `abort'
   and `exit', check that your include files has prototypes and if not,
   that you have installed gcc-includes.  You should always install
   gcc-includes if your system include files doesn't have prototypes.
   (As a temporary hack, you may remove #include <stdlib.h> from all
   the files.)


3. Install:

   To install the executables, maps, and textures, run

        make install

   and to install the manual pages, run

	make install.man

   If you have logging enabled you will have to touch a file called
   log in the INSTLIBDIR and give other users write permission to it.
   This is necessary since xpilot isn't, and shouldn't be, set[ug]id.


If everything fails, see the FAQ, which you can find in the doc subdirectory.
$Id: INSTALL,v 3.1 1995/07/17 10:33:58 bjoerns Exp $

This is the README file for XPilot.

For version and copyright information, see VERSION and LICENSE.

For information on how to install XPilot, see INSTALL.

VMS users should examine the contrib/VMS subdirectory and read the
README.VMS which is in there.

The documentation for XPilot is far from complete, though we have tried to
remove all the errors from it.  Because of lack of time, the map format is
only explained in README.MAPS and README.MAPS2, not in the server
manual page (xpilots(6)).  The client manual page (xpilot(6)) is more
or less up to date.

See the manuals in the doc/man directory for further reading.



OTHER SOURCES OF INFORMATION

XPilot FAQ: telnet xpilot.cs.uit.no 4402
	(also in the doc/ subdirectory)

XPilot Page on WWW: http://www.cs.uit.no/XPilot/

XPilot Newbie Manual on WWW: http://bau2.uibk.ac.at/erwin/NM/www

XPilot newsgroup: rec.games.computer.xpilot

XPilot announcement mailing list: xpilot-announce@list.uit.no
	(send an e-mail to majordomo@list.uit.no for help on how to join).
